Apple Cider Cut-Out Cookies
These apple cider cutout cookies take some time to make, but are worth the effort. They're a no-spread, shortbread-like cookie, full of spiced apple flavor. The icing uses both fresh and reduced cider; the apple flavor really comes through the day after the cookies are baked.

By Kim
Prep Time: 2 hrs
Cook Time: 35 mins
Chill Time: 1 hr 15 mins
Total Time: 3 hrs 50 mins
Servings: 40
Yield: 40 cookies
Ingredients
Cookies

3/4 cup unsalted butter

2 cups apple cider

1/2 cup light brown sugar

1/2 cup granulated sugar

1 large egg

2 teaspoons vanilla extract

1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon

3/4 teaspoon salt

1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg

1/8 teaspoon ground cloves

1/8 teaspoon ground allspice

3 cups all-purpose flour

1 tablespoons cornstarch

1/8 teaspoon baking powder

Icing

2 tablespoons reduced apple cider

2 tablespoons heavy cream

1 tablespoon apple cider (not reduced), or more as needed

1 1/2 cups confectioner's sugar

1 tablespoon honey

1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract

1/8 teaspoon salt

ground cinnamon for sprinkling (optional)

Directions
Place butter into a light-colored saucepan over medium heat. Cook, stirring frequently, until butter is browned and smells nutty, 5 to 10 minutes. Pour butter into a large mixing bowl.

To the same saucepan, carefully pour in 2 cups of apple cider (it will sputter a bit). Place pan back over medium heat, and cook, stirring often, until cider has reduced to 1/2 cup, 20 to 25 minutes. Measure out 2 tablespoons of the reduced cider; set aside to use for icing. Pour remaining reduced cider into the bowl with browned butter. Allow to cool for 20 minutes.

Add brown sugar, white sugar, egg, vanilla, cinnamon, salt, nutmeg, cloves, and allspice to the butter-cider mixture. Whisk until thoroughly combined. Add in 1 1/2 cups flour, cornstarch, and baking powder, and mix until just combined. Add in remaining 1 1/2 cups flour, and mix until just combined; dough will be thick. Knead dough with your hands a few times until smooth. Pat dough into a flat disc, then wrap and refrigerate for at least 1 hour, or up to 48 hours.

Remove dough from refrigerator. If dough is too stiff to roll out, allow it to sit out at room temperature until it softens slightly, about 15 minutes. Lightly flour a work surface and roll dough out 1/4-inch thick. Cut out cookies using cutters. Gather dough scraps back together, re-roll, and cut out cookies until dough is all used up. Place cut-outs into the refrigerator for at least 15 minutes.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Line cookie sheets with parchment paper. Place chilled cut-outs 1 inch apart on prepared baking sheets.

Bake cookies in the preheated oven, one sheet at a time, until slightly puffed, 10 to 12 minutes. Cool cookies on the pan for several minutes, then remove to a wire rack to cool completely.

For icing, whisk together the reserved 2 tablespoons reduced cider, heavy cream, 1 tablespoons (non-reduced) apple cider, powdered sugar, honey, salt, and vanilla together until smooth. If icing is too thick, add more apple cider until desired consistency is reached; conversely, if icing is too thin, add more powdered sugar to thicken.

Place a wire rack over a baking sheet. Carefully hold a cookie by its edges. Dip the top of the cookie into the icing, then lift straight up to allow excess icing to drip off for several seconds. Carefully invert cookie and place onto the wire rack to catch any icing drips. Lightly sprinkle the top of the cookie with extra cinnamon before icing sets, if desired. Repeat with remaining cookies. Once icing is set, store cookies in an airtight container.


