Bananas Foster Crispy Rice
For this bananas Foster crispy rice, caramelized bananas, ice cream, toasted pecans, and a rum caramel sauce sit atop a sweet-salty disc of butter-fried crisp sushi rice.

By Marianne Williams
Prep Time: 10 mins
Cook Time: 55 mins
Chill Time: 8 hrs
Stand Time: 10 mins
Total Time: 10 hrs 15 mins
Servings: 6
Ingredients
1 cup sushi rice, rinsed

1 1/2 cups tap water

1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons white sugar, divided

1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt, divided

1/4 cup plain whole milk yogurt

1 tablespoon light brown sugar

2 teaspoons vanilla extract

1 teaspoon ground cinnamon

5 tablespoons unsalted butter, divided

2 medium bananas, halved crosswise and lengthwise

1/3 cup caramel topping (such as Smucker’s®)

1 tablespoon dark rum (such as Myers’s®)

vanilla ice cream, for serving

finely chopped toasted pecans, for garnish

Directions
Stir together rice, water, 1/4 cup white sugar, and 1 teaspoon salt in a saucepan. Bring to a boil over high heat. Once boiling, reduce heat to medium-low and cover with a tight fitting lid. Cook, undisturbed, until rice is tender, about 25 minutes. Remove from heat and let sit, covered, for 10 minutes. Fluff with a fork and spread onto a parchment-lined baking sheet. Refrigerate, uncovered, for at least 8 hours and up to 24 hours.

Stir together yogurt, brown sugar, vanilla, cinnamon, and remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt in a bowl. Add refrigerated rice and stir well until fully coated. 

Heat 2 tablespoons butter in a 10-inch nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add rice mixture to skillet and use the back of a spoon to flatten into an even layer to cover bottom of skillet. Press rice with spoon to ensure there are no gaps.

Cook over medium heat, uncovered, pressing rice down occasionally, and turning pan 90 degrees every 2 minutes, until it sizzles and begins to brown and crisp along edges of skillet, about 10 minutes. Remove from heat. Spray a large plate with cooking spray and place upside down over the skillet. Holding both firmly, flip the skillet over so rice is on the plate. Add 2 tablespoons of the remaining butter to skillet, then gently slide rice back into skillet. Cook over medium until a crust begins to form and edges are crisp, about 8 more minutes. Slide rice onto a large plate and set aside. Reserve skillet.

Meanwhile, place banana slices on a large plate and sprinkle flat sides evenly with remaining 2 tablespoons white sugar. Using a kitchen torch, carefully heat sugar until deeply golden brown and shiny, about 2 minutes. 

Melt remaining 1 tablespoon butter in skillet over medium heat. Add caramel and stir until just starting to bubble, about 30 seconds. Remove from heat and add rum. Using kitchen torch, carefully light rum in skillet. Swirl skillet until flames have disappeared, about 30 seconds. 

Place caramelized banana slices on top of crispy rice and drizzle with some of the caramel mixture. Top with small scoops of ice cream and another drizzle of caramel. Sprinkle with chopped pecans and serve immediately with remaining sauce on the side.

From the Editor:
How to toast pecans: Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C). Spread pecans onto a baking sheet. Toast in the preheated oven until nuts start to turn golden brown and become fragrant, 8 to 12 minutes.  


