Brown Butter Caramel Chai Cookies
In these chewy brown butter caramel chai cookies, you’ll find brown butter and chai spices are a perfect pair. The dough does need to chill in the fridge for about 30 minutes before baking, so be sure to plan ahead.

By Kim
Prep Time: 25 mins
Cook Time: 10 mins
Chill Time: 30 mins
Cool Time: 15 mins
Total Time: 1 hr 20 mins
Servings: 26
Yield: 26 cookies
Ingredients
Chai Spice Mix:

2 teaspoons ground cinnamon

1 teaspoon ground cardamom

1 teaspoon ground ginger

1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg

1/2 teaspoon ground allspice

1/4 teaspoon ground cloves

Cookie Dough:

1/2 cup unsalted butter

1/2 cup brown sugar

2 tablespoons white sugar

1/4 cup caramel sauce

1 large egg

2 teaspoons vanilla extract

1 1/2 cups all purpose flour

1 1/2 teaspoons chai spice mix

1 teaspoon baking powder

3/4 teaspoon baking soda

3/4 teaspoon salt

Chai Spice - Sugar Mix

1/4 cup white sugar

1 tablespoon chai spice mix

Directions
Stir cinnamon, cardamom, ginger, nutmeg, allspice, and cloves together in a small bowl; set aside.

Place butter into a light-colored, medium-sized saucepan over medium-low heat. Cook, stirring often, until butter begins to brown and smells nutty, 5 to 7 minutes. Pour butter into a large mixing bowl, and let cool for about 15 minutes.

To the bowl with the browned butter, add brown sugar, 2 tablespoons white sugar, 1/4 cup caramel sauce, egg, and vanilla; mix until combined. If caramel sauce is very thick, chunks of caramel may remain; clumps of caramel smaller than 1/2-inch are okay. Mix in flour, 1 1/2 teaspoons of the chai spice mix, baking powder, baking soda, and salt until combined. Chill dough in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C). Line 2 baking sheets with silicone baking mats or parchment paper.

In a small bowl, stir together 1/4 cup white sugar and 1 tablespoon of chai spice mix.

Remove dough from the fridge, and scoop out a 1 tablespoon-sized piece of dough and roll into a ball. Roll dough ball in the chai-sugar mixture until coated. Place on the prepared baking sheet. Repeat with remaining dough and place dough balls 2 inches apart onto the prepared baking sheets.

Bake cookies in the preheated oven until they begin to crack on top and look slightly set, 10 to 12 minutes. Allow cookies to cool on the pan for a few minutes before removing to a wire rack to cool completely. If desired, drizzle cooled cookies with extra caramel sauce.
