Carrot Cake Pancakes
Carrot cake pancakes for breakfast? Why not! The spices in these pancakes take you right to the flavors of a carrot cake. They're topped with a sweet cream cheese drizzle, chopped nuts, raisins, and flaked coconut for a decadent treat.

By Diana Moutsopoulos
 Tested by Allrecipes Test Kitchen
Prep Time: 20 mins
Cook Time: 10 mins
Total Time: 30 mins
Servings: 4
Yield: 8 carrot pancakes
Ingredients
Carrot Cake Pancakes

1 ¼ cups all-purpose flour

1 ½ teaspoons baking powder

1 teaspoon ground cinnamon

½ teaspoon pumpkin pie spice

½ teaspoon baking soda

¼ teaspoon table salt

1 cup whole buttermilk

¼ cup packed light brown sugar

1 large egg

1 teaspoon vanilla extract

¾ cup finely grated carrot

3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, plus more for griddle

Crem Cheese Frosting Drizzle

3 ounces cream cheese, softened

1 tablespoon whole milk

2 tablespoons powdered sugar

½ teaspoon vanilla extract

Topping

3 tablespoons golden raisins

3 tablespoons toasted chopped pecans or walnuts

3 tablespoons toasted unsweetened coconut flakes

1 tablespoon finely chopped candied ginger (Optional)

Directions
Gather all ingredients.

To make the pancake batter: Whisk flour, baking powder, cinnamon, pumpkin pie spice, baking soda, and salt together in a large bowl.

Add buttermilk, brown sugar, egg, and vanilla; stir until just combined. Stir in carrots and melted butter until just combined. Set batter aside while you prepare the frosting and topping.

To make the frosting: Whisk cream cheese, milk, powdered sugar, and vanilla together in a medium bowl until smooth. Set aside.

To prepare the topping: Stir raisins, pecans, coconut, and ginger together in a small bowl. Set aside.

Heat a large nonstick skillet or griddle over medium heat; grease with butter.

Working in batches, scoop 1/4 cup batter per pancake into the skillet, being sure not to overcrowd it. Cook until bubbles begin to form on surface of pancakes and edges look dry, 2 to 3 minutes. Flip, and cook until fluffy and slightly firm, about 1 minute. Repeat with remaining batter, adding butter and adjusting heat as needed.

Divide pancakes evenly among 4 plates; drizzle evenly with frosting and sprinkle evenly with topping.

Recipe developed by Laura Kanya
