Chilaquiles Breakfast Casserole
This chilaquiles breakfast casserole is made with layered tortilla chips, baked in a spiced chile sauce and cheese. Topped with fried or poached eggs, and plenty of delicious fixings, it's very satisfying. Traditional chilaquiles are made in a skillet, but this casserole version is a great way to serve a large group at breakfast or a brunch.

By John Mitzewich
Prep Time: 15 mins
Cook Time: 30 mins
Total Time: 45 mins
Servings: 6
Ingredients
Sauce

1 (20 ounce) can red enchilada sauce

1 cup roasted tomato salsa

1/2 cup diced Hatch green chilies

1/2 lime, juiced

2 teaspoons chili powder

1 teaspoon ground cumin

1 teaspoon dried oregano

1/2 cup sliced green onions

Casserole

8 to 10 cups thick-cut tortilla chips

4 ounces shredded Monterey Jack cheese

4 ounces shredded Cheddar cheese

6 large eggs

1 avocado - pitted, peeled, and diced

1/4 cup crumbled queso fresco cheese

1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro leaves

sour cream (optional)

hot sauce (optional)

Directions
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).

Add enchilada sauce, salsa, Hatch chilies, lime juice, chili powder, cumin, oregano, and green onions to a bowl and whisk thoroughly.

Toss Monterey Jack and Cheddar cheeses together; set aside.

Transfer 1 ladle of sauce into the bottom of a 9x12-inch baking dish. Top with half the chips, arranging into an even layer. Ladle over half the remaining sauce. Top evenly with half the cheese mixture.

Top with remaining chips, arranging into an even layer. Ladle over remaining sauce. Top evenly with the remaining cheese mixture.

Bake in the preheated oven until the casserole is heated through and cheese is starting to brown, 20 to 25 minutes.

In the last few minutes of baking time, prepare the eggs by frying or poaching, or bake them on top of the casserole as shown in the video. See Chef's Note for directions.

Serve casserole hot, topped with avocado, queso fresco, cilantro, sour cream, and hot sauce. Add a fried or poached egg to the top of each serving.

Chef's Note:
To bake eggs on the top of the casserole, abke the casserole in the preheated oven for 20 minutes. Remove from the oven, and make 6 very shallow wells in the top of the casserole with the back of a spoon. Carefully crack a raw egg into each well. 

Return casserole to the oven, and bake until egg whites are opaque but yolks are still runny, 10 to 15 minutes more. The eggs will finish cooking while the casserole is garnished.
