Christmas Bark
This Christmas bark, with red and green M&Ms and sprinkles, is easy to make—you only need a microwave and refrigerator. The recipe variations, mint chocolate and salted caramel pretzel, offer different choices of color, texture, and flavor, with the flexibility to pick whatever type of chocolate you want.

By Sarah Brekke
 Tested by Juliana Hale
Prep Time: 20 mins
Chill Time: 30 mins
Total Time: 50 mins
Servings: 20
Yield: 1 pound 3 ounces
Ingredients
cooking spray

8 ounces chocolate or vanilla flavor candy coating (almond bark), chopped

8 ounces milk, semisweet, or dark chocolate, chopped, or white baking chips

1 tablespoon shortening

1/3 cup red and green candy-coated chocolate pieces (such as M&M’s®)

1 tablespoon red and/or green sprinkles

Directions
Gather all ingredients.

Line a large baking sheet with heavy foil; grease foil with cooking spray. Combine candy coating, chocolate, and shortening in a large microwave-safe bowl. Microwave on High until chocolate is melted, stirring every 30 seconds, 1 1/2 to 2 minutes.

Pour mixture onto the prepared baking sheet; spread out evenly, 1/4 inch thick. 

Sprinkle with candy pieces and sprinkles. Chill until firm, about 30 minutes.

Break candy into pieces.

Variations
Mint Chocolate: Using vanilla candy coating, melt 4 ounces coating with 4 ounces milk chocolate chips and 1/2 tablespoon shortening. Melt remaining 4 ounces coating with 4 ounces white baking chips and remaining 1/2 tablespoon shortening; stir in 1/4 teaspoon peppermint extract and tint with green gel food coloring. Drop alternating spoonfuls of chocolate and mint mixtures onto the prepared baking sheet. Using a narrow spatula, swirl mixtures. Gently shimmy the baking sheet back and forth to spread the candy mixture to 1/4-inch thickness. Sprinkle with 1/4 cup chopped layered chocolate-mint candies. Chill as directed.

Salted Caramel Pretzel: Prepare and spread chocolate mixture as directed. Microwave 10 unwrapped vanilla caramels (2.8 ounces), and 1 teaspoon milk in a bowl until melted, stirring every 30 seconds, 1 to 2 minutes. Drizzle chocolate mixture with melted caramels. Sprinkle with 1/3 cup broken pretzels and 1/4 teaspoon flaky sea salt. Chill as directed.


