Cinnamon Roll Focaccia
"Fluffy on the inside and shatteringly crispy on the outside."

By Andrea Lobas
 Tested by Amanda Holstein
Prep Time: 15 mins
Cook Time: 20 mins
Rise Time: 3 hrs
Total Time: 3 hrs 35 mins
Servings: 12 (serving size: 1 [3- x 3-inch] piece)
Ingredients
1/4 cup, plus 1 tablespoon canola oil, divided

all-purpose flour, for work surface

2 (1-pound) fresh prepared pizza dough balls

1/4 cup, plus 2 tablespoons light brown sugar, divided, plus more for sprinkling

2 teaspoons ground cinnamon, divided

7 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened, divided

4 ounces cream cheese, at room temperature

1 cup powdered sugar

1 tablespoon whole milk

1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract

Directions
Gather all ingredients. Evenly coat a 13- x 9-inch baking pan with 1/4 cup of the oil.

On a lightly floured work surface, using your hands or a rolling pin, press dough balls into about 1-inch thickness. Stir together 2 tablespoons light brown sugar and 1 teaspoon cinnamon in a small bowl. Sprinkle the top of one dough round evenly with sugar mixture, place second dough round on top, and knead together until combined and one ball of dough is formed.

Place dough in the prepared pan, cover with plastic wrap, and let rest in a warm place for 3 hours, removing plastic every hour and gently pressing out dough as thin as possible.

Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C).

Uncover dough, and spread into an even layer pressing into the edges of the pan. Grease your hands and make deep dimples all over the top of the dough with your fingertips. Drizzle evenly with remaining 1 tablespoon oil, and make dimples all over top of the dough with your fingertips again.

Bake in the preheated oven until slightly risen and starting to brown, 8 to 10 minutes. Meanwhile, melt 6 tablespoons of the butter in a small saucepan over medium. Remove from heat, add remaining 1/4 cup light brown sugar and remaining 1 teaspoon cinnamon, and stir until combined; drizzle evenly over dough. Return to oven and bake at 450 degrees F (230 degrees C) until well browned and puffed, 8 to 10 more minutes.

Meanwhile, combine cream cheese and remaining 1 tablespoon butter in a bowl and beat on medium speed with an electric mixer until smooth and creamy, about 30 seconds. Gradually add powdered sugar, beating at low speed until blended, about 30 seconds. Stir in milk and vanilla until icing is smooth and creamy.

Drizzle icing over hot bread; serve warm.

Recipe developed by Craig Ruff
