Dubai Chocolate Strawberry Dip
This Dubai chocolate strawberry dip mimics a Dubai chocolate bar. Velvety chocolate pudding, intensified with the addition of melted chocolate chips, is topped with a crunchy, toasted kataifi and pistachio layer, and served with whole strawberries for dipping.

By Annie Campbell
 Tested by Amanda Holstein
Prep Time: 15 mins
Cook Time: 10 mins
Chill Time: 30 mins
Total Time: 55 mins
Servings: 4 to 6 (serving size: about 1/3 cup)
Ingredients
1 1/2 cups whole milk

3/4 cup semisweet chocolate chips, chopped

2 tablespoons unsalted butter

1 1/2 cups frozen or thawed kataifi, cut into small shreds (about 3 ounces)

1 (3.9 ounce) package chocolate instant pudding and pie filling (such as Jell-O®)

1 cup pistachio cream (such as Flora® pistachio crunchy spread)

3 tablespoons tap water

1/2 cup chopped lightly salted pistachios, plus more for garnish

1 1/2 tablespoons tahini (ground sesame seeds)

1 quart whole fresh strawberries with tops

flaky sea salt (optional)

Directions
Gather all ingredients.

Heat milk in a saucepan over low until steaming, about 3 minutes. Remove from heat and whisk in chocolate chips until smooth.

Pour melted chocolate into a large shallow bowl. Cover with plastic wrap with wrap touching the surface of the chocolate mixture. Freeze until mixture is thickened and chilled, about 30 minutes.

While chocolate mixture chills, melt butter in a nonstick skillet over medium heat. Add kataifi and cook, stirring occasionally, until golden brown and crispy, about 6 minutes. Transfer to a bowl; set aside 3 tablespoons for garnish.

Pour chilled chocolate mixture through a fine-mesh strainer set over a large bowl with instant pudding. Whisk mixture constantly until slightly thickened and pudding mix is dissolved, about 4 minutes. Refrigerate until ready to use.

In a separate bowl, stir together pistachio cream and water until smooth. Gently fold in kataifi, pistachios, and tahini until combined.

Transfer kataifi mixture to a shallow serving bowl; spread in an even layer. Then, top mixture with chocolate pudding in an even layer.

Garnish with reserved kataifi, pistachios, and flaky salt, if desired. Serve with strawberries.


