Easter Egg Rolls
These Easter egg rolls are not made from Easter eggs, but I cannot think of a better use for leftover Easter ham. Filled with tender veggies and rice vermicelli, with the sweet-savory flavor of ham, and a perfectly-textured thin, crisp exterior, these egg rolls are absolutely delicious. I've included a recipe for a non-traditional mustard sauce, but you can also use any more traditional sauces like hoisin or sweet and sour sauce.

By John Mitzewich
Prep Time: 30 mins
Cook Time: 15 mins
Total Time: 45 mins
Servings: 12
Yield: 12 to 14 egg rolls
Ingredients
1 tablespoon vegetable oil

1 tablespoon minced or finely grated fresh ginger

3 cloves garlic, minced

1 cup julienne (matchstick-cut) or shredded carrot

4 cups thinly sliced green cabbage

1/3 cup thinly sliced green onions

1/2 cup thinly sliced large brown button mushrooms

1/2 teaspoon kosher salt

2 teaspoons sesame oil

2 tablespoons oyster sauce

2 ounces dry rice vermicelli noodles

1/2 cup frozen green peas, thawed, well drained

6 ounces deli ham, cut into thin strips

1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper

1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper

14 large (6 to 7-inch) square egg roll wrappers

1 large egg, beaten with 1 teaspoon water for egg wash

2 cups high smoke point vegetable oil for frying, or as needed

Mustard Sauce (optional):

3/4 cup yellow or Dijon mustard

1/4 cup seasoned rice vinegar

1 tablespoon Sriracha hot sauce, or to taste

Directions
Heat 1 tablespoon vegetable oil over medium-high heat, and add garlic and ginger. Stir-fry until fragrant but not browned, about 30 seconds, then add carrot, cabbage, green onions, mushrooms, and salt. Sook, stirring, for a few minutes or until the vegetables just start to soften up and lose their rigidity.

Stir in sesame oil and oyster sauce, and cook for 1 minute more; reduce the heat to medium-low. Add the uncooked vermicelli noodles, and use tongs to cover noodles with hot vegetable mixture. The noodles will quickly loosen up and separate; continue to use tongs to toss and stir everything until uniformly mixed.

Transfer mixture to a bowl, and add peas, ham, cayenne, and black pepper. Mix thoroughly to combine. Taste for seasoning, and add more salt if desired. Let mixture cool, then wrap and transfer into the refrigerator until ready to use.

Place 1 egg roll wrapper on a clean work surface, and position it in a diamond shape. Paint egg wash on all 4 edges. Spoon about 1/3 cup of filling on the bottom third of the wrapper. Make sure it’s centered and evenly distributed. Fold the bottom tip of the wrapper up and over the filling and roll once to cover filling. Fold in sides, making sure to cover filling and align sides nice and straight. Finish rolling egg roll up, ending with the tip and seam at the bottom. Repeat with remaining wrappers and filling.

Heat oil in a deep-fryer or large saucepan to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Fry egg rolls until browned and crisp, 4 to 5 minutes. Drain on a paper towel-lined plate and let rest for a minute or two before serving.

Optional: Whisk mustard, rice vinegar, and sriracha together in a small bowl. Serve egg rolls with mustard sauce, or other prepared egg roll sauce.

Chef's Notes:
If shallow frying in a pan, like in the video, I like to turn the egg rolls every minute or so until done to ensure an even browning.

Instead of cutting the cabbage and carrot, you can use the same amount of a ready-made coleslaw mix from the store.

I like tender vegetables in my egg roll, but if you want a crunchier filling texture, cut the vegetables into larger matchsticks, and/or cook them less in the pan.

From the Editor:
We have determined the nutritional value of oil for frying based on a retention value of 10% after cooking. Amount will vary depending on cooking time and temperature, ingredient density, and specific type of oil used.
