French Silk Pie Bars
These French silk pie bars are sooo good. They consist of a chocolate crust, followed by a chocolate mousse layer topped with whipped cream with just a little tang from cream cheese. You can't go wrong with these!

By Sarah Brekke
 Tested by Juliana Hale
Prep Time: 40 mins
Cook Time: 20 mins
Chill Time: 4 hrs
Total Time: 5 hrs
Servings: 16
Yield: 16 2x2-inch bars
Ingredients
Crust

1/3 cup butter, melted

1/4 cup white sugar

1 1/4 cups finely crushed chocolate or regular graham crackers (about 9 sheets)

Filling

7 ounces bittersweet chocolate

4 large eggs, at room temperature

3/4 cup white sugar

1/4 cup packed brown sugar

3 tablespoons water, at room temperature

1/4 teaspoon salt

1 tablespoon vanilla extract

1/2 cup unsalted butter, at room temperature, cut into 8 pieces

1/2 cup heavy cream

Topping

3 ounces cream cheese, softened

3 tablespoons white sugar

1 teaspoon vanilla extract

1 pinch salt

1 1/2 cups heavy cream

chocolate curls or chocolate sprinkles

Directions
Gather all ingredients.

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Lightly grease a 9x9-inch baking pan.

For crust, combine melted butter and 1/4 cup white sugar in a bowl. Add crushed crackers; toss to mix well. Press mixture into the bottom of the prepared pan. 

Bake in the preheated oven until crust is set, about 8 minutes. Cool completely on a wire rack.

Prepare filling. Place chocolate in a bowl set over a large saucepan of simmering water (bowl should not touch water). Cook, stirring frequently, until chocolate is melted. Set aside to cool.

Meanwhile, whisk together eggs, 3/4 cup white sugar, brown sugar, water, and salt in another bowl that fits over the saucepan. Place the bowl over simmering water, being careful not to let water touch the bottom of the bowl. Cook, stirring constantly with a spatula, until sugar is dissolved and egg mixture reaches 165 degrees F (74 degrees C), 5 to 7 minutes.

Remove bowl from heat. Beat egg mixture with an electric mixer on high speed until light and fluffy and bowl has cooled down to room temperature, about 8 minutes. Add melted chocolate and 1 tablespoon vanilla; beat on low until combined. Increase speed to medium and slowly beat in butter, a few pieces at a time, until fully incorporated. Transfer mixture to a large bowl. 

Beat 1/2 cup whipping cream in a small bowl with an electric mixer on medium-high until stiff peaks form. Gently fold whipped cream into chocolate mixture until fully combined. Spread chocolate mixture evenly over the cooled crust and chill in the refrigerator until the chocolate mixture is nearly set, 20 to 30 minutes.

Meanwhile, for topping, beat cream cheese in a bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed until smooth. Add 3 tablespoons white sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla, and a pinch of salt. Beat on medium-low until smooth, scraping down the sides as needed. Slowly beat in 1 1/2 cups whipping cream on low speed until combined. Increase speed to medium and beat until stiff peaks form, about 2 minutes.

Spoon topping in mounds over chocolate filling and spread to an even layer. Return pan to the refrigerator and chill at least 4 hours to overnight before serving.

Serve topped with chocolate curls or sprinkles.
