Funfetti Cheesecake Sandwich Cookies
These funfetti cheesecake sandwich cookies are sprinkle-filled graham cracker and cream cheese cookies with creamy cheesecake-flavored filling. Cutout hearts are sure to set any cheesecake lover's heart aflutter! Give yourself time to make these—the cookie dough requires at least 4 1/2 hours of chill time.

By Kim
Prep Time: 45 mins
Cook Time: 10 mins
Chill Time: 4 hrs 30 mins
Cool Time: 20 mins
Total Time: 5 hrs 45 mins
Servings: 33
Ingredients
Cookies

1 cup unsalted butter, softened

8 ounces cream cheese, at room temperature

3/4 cup firmly packed light brown sugar

3/4 cup white sugar

1 teaspoon salt

1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg

1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon

1 extra large egg, at room temperature

2 teaspoons vanilla extract

1/4 teaspoon almond extract

1 1/2 cups finely ground graham cracker crumbs (from about 12 crackers)

2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour

2 tablespoons cornstarch

1 teaspoon baking powder

1/2 cup red, pink, and white jimmie sprinkles

Filling

1/2 cup unsalted butter, softened

8 ounces full fat cream cheese, at room temperature

3 1/2 cups confectioners sugar

1 teaspoon vanilla extract

1/8 teaspoon salt

1/8 teaspoon almond extract

1 teaspoon lemon juice

1 tablespoon heavy cream

1 tablespoons red, pink, and white jimmie sprinkles

Directions
For cookies, beat butter and cream cheese together with an electric mixer in a large bowl until smooth. Add in brown sugar, white sugar, salt, nutmeg, and cinnamon and beat until smooth and combined. Add in egg, vanilla, and almond extract and beat until smooth and combined.

Add in graham cracker crumbs and beat until incorporated. Add in 1 3/4 cups flour, corn starch, and baking powder and mix until just combined. Add in remaining 1 cup flour and mix until just combined. Add in 1/2 cup jimmies and stir until incorporated.

Divide dough in half and place each half onto a piece of plastic wrap. Use the plastic wrap to flatten each dough half into a 1/2-inch thick disc, cover, and refrigerate for at least 4 hours.

Flour a work surface, and roll out dough, 1 disc at a time, 1/8-inch thick. Cut out shapes with a 3 1/2-inch heart-shaped cutter. Press dough scraps back together, re-roll and re-cut as needed. Place cut-outs on a flat surface, then place them into fridge to chill for about 30 minutes.

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). Line baking sheets with silicone baking mats or parchment paper.

Remove cut-outs from the refrigerator, and space 1 inch apart on baking sheets.

Bake until cookies look just set, 6 to 9 minutes. Cool on pan for 5 minutes before carefully removing to a wire rack to cool completely.

For filling, beat butter with an electric mixer until smooth. Beat in cream cheese until completely smooth and combined. Add in 1 cup confectioner’s sugar, vanilla, salt, and almond extract and beat until completely smooth and combined. Add remaining powdered sugar, 1 cup at a time, beating after each addition until smooth. Add lemon juice and heavy cream, and beat frosting for another 2 to 3 minutes on medium-high speed. Fold in sprinkles.

Flip one heart cookie over, and spread or pipe some of the frosting evenly over the bottom of the cookie. Top with another cookie and lightly press together to adhere. Repeat this process of filling and sandwiching cookies together until all the cookies and frosting are used up. Refrigerate cookie sandwiches until ready to eat.
