Italian Ricotta Cookie Bars
In these Italian ricotta cookie bars, you get all the flavor, plus the amazingly soft, delicious, cakey texture of ricotta cookies—but without the hassle of making individual cookies.

By Kim
Prep Time: 15 mins
Cook Time: 30 mins
Cool Time: 30 mins
Total Time: 1 hr 15 mins
Servings: 16
Yield: 16 cookie bars
Ingredients
Cookie Bars

1/2 cup unsalted butter, softened

3/4 cup white sugar

1/4 cup firmly packed light brown sugar

1/2 teaspoon salt

1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg

2 extra large eggs, at room temperature

8 ounces whole milk ricotta cheese, at room temperature

1 teaspoon freshly grated lemon zest

2 teaspoons freshly squeezed lemon juice

1 teaspoon vanilla extract

1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour

1/4 teaspoon baking soda

Icing

1 1/4 cups confectioner's sugar

1 tablespoon unsalted butter, melted

2 teaspoons freshly squeezed lemon juice

1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract

1 pinch salt

3 teaspoons whole milk, or more as needed

nonpareil sprinkles, as needed

Directions
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C). Line a 9x9-inch square pan with enough parchment paper to have overhang on all sides, and lightly grease the parchment.

For cookie bars, beat butter, white sugar, brown sugar, salt, and nutmeg together in a bowl with an electric mixer until light and fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes. Add in eggs and beat for 1 more minute. Add in ricotta, lemon zest, lemon juice, and vanilla and mix until thoroughly incorporated. Add in flour and baking soda and mix until just combined. Transfer batter into the prepared pan and spread into an even layer. 

Bake until golden and the center of the bars feel just set when lightly touched, about 30 minutes. Remove from oven and allow to cool completely.

For icing, mix together powdered sugar, melted butter, lemon juice, vanilla, pinch of salt and 3 teaspoons of milk until smooth. If glaze is too thick, add another teaspoon of milk until it is a pourable consistency. Pour glaze over bars and spread into an even layer. Sprinkle nonpareils over icing before it sets. Allow glaze to set before cutting into 16 bars. Bars can be placed in the refrigerator to speed up setting. Keep bars stored in the refrigerator, but bring to room temperature to serve.
