Jam “Jewel” Cookies
Light up your kitchen during the holidays with this "jewel" of a cookie! The buttery shortbread is made in a mini muffin pan, and they're filled with the fruit preserve of your choice.

By Ashley Schuering
Prep Time: 20 mins
Cook Time: 15 mins
Total Time: 35 mins
Servings: 40
Yield: 40 cookies
Ingredients
1 cup plus 1 ½ tablespoons salted butter, softened (such as Kirkland grass-fed salted butter)

1 ⅔ cups powdered sugar

4 cups all-purpose flour

1/2 teaspoon kosher salt

2 large eggs, at room temperature

2 large egg yolks, at room temperature

2 teaspoons vanilla extract

1 cup jam or jelly of choice

Directions
Cream butter in a large bowl with an electric mixer or use a stand mixer. Add powdered sugar and beat on low until a crumbly, sandy mixture forms. Gradually add salt and flour, 1 cup at a time, while mixing on low speed. The dough may look extremely dry and crumbly at this point.
Mix in eggs, egg yolks, and vanilla initially using the mixer, then finishing with your hands to create a smooth, soft, and pliable dough, incorporating all the flour at the bottom of the bowl. Gather dough into a ball and refrigerate in a covered container for about 2 hours.
Recipe Tip
You can use the dough immediately without chilling, but refrigerating the dough makes it easier to handle.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees F). Adjust the oven racks to the 2 middle rungs. Line 2 mini muffin tins with paper liners.
Using a small (1 ½ tablespoons) cookie scoop, measure out portions of the dough and set into the prepared muffin cups. Gently roll each dough portions into a smooth ball between your hands and place back into the muffins cups. Push a deep well into each ball using the wooden handle of a spatula or your finger. Fill wells with jam using a small spoon or a piping bag.
Bake cookies in the preheated oven until the tops of the cookies look dry, but not browned, 13 to 15 minutes, swapping the trays halfway through.(Or bake one at a time).
Remove trays from the oven and transfer cookies to a wire rack to cool.
Cook’s Note
Using 1 teaspoon of almond extract and 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract (instead of 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract as the recipe is currently written) is really yummy too, especially with stone fruit jam.

For extra sparkle, roll the dough in sanding sugar before baking.

Jewel cookies will keep well in an airtight container at room temperature for 7 to 10 days. They will grow softer over time. You can also freeze the dough for up to 3 months if you want to work in advance, or only want to bake off half.

From the Editor
The original recipe is in metric. If you have a scale, please measure out 250g salted butter, 200g powdered sugar, and 500g all-purpose flour.
