Overnight Baked Oatmeal
This overnight baked oatmeal has a tender, yet chewy texture, fun flavor combination ideas, and just the right amount of sweetness and spice.

By Emily Nienhaus
 Tested by Sarah Brekke
Prep Time: 15 mins
Cook Time: 45 mins
Refrigerate Time: 8 hrs
Stand Time: 10 mins
Total Time: 9 hrs 10 mins
Servings: 6
Ingredients
2 large eggs

2 cups milk or unsweetened plant milk of your choice

1/4 cup maple syrup

1/4 cup packed brown sugar

1 teaspoon vanilla extract

1 teaspoon ground cinnamon

1/2 teaspoon salt

2 cups regular rolled oats (not quick cooking)

1/3 cup dry amaranth, buckwheat groats or quinoa (optional)

Directions
Gather all ingredients.

Grease a 2-quart rectangular baking dish. 

Whisk eggs, milk, maple syrup, brown sugar, vanilla, cinnamon, and salt together in the prepared dish. 

Stir in oats and amaranth. If desired, stir in flavor variation mix-ins (see below).

Cover and chill at least overnight or up to 3 days.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C). Uncover and stir to re-incorporate all of the ingredients.

Bake, uncovered, until golden brown and the center is set, 45 to 55 minutes.

Let stand 10 minutes before serving. Serve warm.

Flavor Variations
Berry Lemon
Omit cinnamon. Gently stir in 1 teaspoon lemon zest and 1 cup total of berries: blueberries, raspberries and/or blackberries.

Banana Chocolate Chip
Mash 1/2 large ripe banana, slice 1 large ripe banana. Gently stir in the banana and 1/2 cup dark chocolate chips, semisweet chocolate chips, or mini chips.

Dried Fruit and Nut
Gently stir in 1/2 cup toasted chopped walnuts or almonds, 1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg or cardamom and 1 cup dried fruit: cranberries, snipped apricots, blueberries and/or dried cherries.

Apple and Peanut Butter
Stir in 1 large unpeeled apple, cored and chopped, and 1/4 cup peanut butter.

Recipe Tip
For individual servings, combine ingredients in a large bowl and portion into 6 greased (6 ounce) ramekins or half-pint jars, making different flavor combinations if desired. Cover and chill overnight or up to 3 days. Bake at 350 degrees F (180 degrees C) for 30 to 35 minutes, when ready to serve.
