Pavlova Christmas Trees
These Pavlova Christmas trees, made of stacked meringue circles layered with cranberry sauce, pistachios, and whipped cream, make a Christmas dessert that is not only beautiful to look at, but surprisingly light and refreshing, especially after a rich holiday meal.

By John Mitzewich
Prep Time: 45 mins
Cook Time: 1 hr 25 mins
Cool Time: 1 hr
Total Time: 3 hrs 10 mins
Servings: 6
Ingredients
Meringue Circles

3/4 cup white sugar

2 teaspoons cornstarch

3 large egg whites, at room temperature

1 pinch salt

1 pinch cream of tartar (optional)

1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract

3/4 teaspoon white vinegar

Cranberry Sauce

2 generous cups fresh cranberries

1/2 cup white sugar

zest from 1/2 orange

1 pod star anise

1 pinch salt

1 cup freshly-squeezed orange juice

Whipped Cream

1 cup very cold heavy cream

Trees

1/2 cup chopped roasted pistachios, or as needed

2 tablespoons confectioner's sugar, or as needed for dusting

Directions
Preheat the oven to 250 degrees F (120 degrees C). Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Whisk sugar and cornstarch together in a bowl; set aside.

Add room temperature egg whites, salt, and cream of tartar to a bowl, and beat on high speed with an electric mixer until foamy and doubled in size.

Add sugar mixture in slowly, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating continuously, until sugar dissolves into egg whites (to test, pinch a small amount; if it feels gritty, beat a little longer). Add vanilla and vinegar, and continue to mix on high until mixture is thick, glossy, and forms stiff peaks.

Transfer egg white mixture into a piping bag with a star tip. Pipe a circle about a 1/2 inch thick and 2 1/2 to 3 inches across. Make 3 more circles, each one smaller than the first, and then pipe a small meringue “kiss.” Pipe 3 sets per sheet pan, for 6 total sets.

Bake in the preheated oven until the surface of the meringue is no longer sticky, about 1 hour and 15 minutes. For best results, rotate pans halfway through. Exact time will depend on the exact size and shape of meringue, as well as humidity, so continue baking until they are no longer sticky to the touch.
Turn oven off, prop the oven door slightly open with a wooden spoon, and leave meringues in the oven to cool for at least 1 hour.

Combine cranberries, sugar, orange zest, star anise, salt, and orange juice in a saucepan and bring to a simmer over medium-high heat. Cook, stirring occasionally, for about 5 minutes, or until the berries are soft, but have not all completely fallen apart, and liquid is slightly reduced and syrupy. Remove from heat to cool, then refrigerate cranberry sauce until needed.

Whip heavy cream in a bowl with an electric mixer until soft peaks form; refrigerate until needed.

To assemble each tree, place largest meringue circle on the bottom. Cover with whipped cream, add a spoonful of cranberry sauce, and then sprinkle with chopped pistachios. Finish layer with a small dollop of whipped cream, and top with the second largest meringue circle.

Continue to build layers in the same order, using successively smaller circles each time, and ending with the smallest meringue kiss. Repeat with remaining ingredients to assemble all 6 trees.

Drip additional cranberry sauce down the sides, if desired, for a nicer look, then sprinkle with powdered sugar.

Chef's Notes:
Cream of tartar is optional, but highly recommended—it will help stabilize the meringue.
For an interactive experience, all the components can be made and set up on a table, and guests can build their own trees.
Trees are best assembled and served the same day meringues are made, since they will eventually absorb moisture from the air and get sticky. Refrigerate in an airtight container if making ahead.

Any tart fruit sauce can be used, including leftover cranberry sauce from Thanksgiving.
