Pineapple Stuffing
This pineapple stuffing makes a great side with ham. I often make this dish for the holidays.

By Nancy Healy
Prep Time: 5 mins
Cook Time: 1 hr
Total Time: 1 hr 5 mins
Servings: 5
Ingredients
1 cup white sugar

½ cup butter

4 large eggs

1 (20 ounce) can crushed pineapple, drained

5 slices white bread, cubed

Directions
Gather all ingredients. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Grease a 9-inch baking pan.

Combine sugar and butter in a large bowl; beat with an electric mixer until smooth and creamy.

Beat in eggs one at a time, then stir in pineapple and bread cubes.

Transfer mixture into prepared baking dish. Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour. Let it sit a few minutes to firm up before serving.

More About This Recipe:
This pineapple stuffing recipe is sure to be a sweet addition to your holiday meal.  

Pineapple Stuffing Ingredients
These are the five simple ingredients you’ll need to make this pineapple stuffing recipe: 

Sugar: This sweet pineapple stuffing starts with a cup of sugar. 
Butter: The recipe calls for a stick of butter, but you can use margarine if you prefer. 
Eggs: Four whole eggs lend moisture and help bind the stuffing together. 
Pineapple: You’ll need one 20-ounce (drained) can of crushed pineapple. 
Bread: Five slices of (cubed) white bread absorb the moisture and create structure. 
How to Make Pineapple Stuffing
You’ll find the full, step-by-step recipe above — but here’s a brief overview of what you can expect when you make homemade pineapple stuffing: 

 Beat the butter and sugar until smooth and creamy. 
 Beat in the eggs, then stir in the pineapple and bread cubes. 
 Pour the mixture into a prepared baking dish and bake in the preheated oven.
Can You Make Pineapple Stuffing Ahead of Time? 
To make pineapple stuffing ahead a day in advance, simply follow the recipe and pour the mixture into a prepared baking dish. Instead of baking immediately, cover the dish tightly with storage wrap or foil. On the day you plan to enjoy it, uncover the dish and bake according to the recipe. 

How to Store Pineapple Stuffing
Store your (completely cooled) pineapple stuffing leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to three days. 

Can You Freeze Pineapple Stuffing? 
If you don’t plan to eat your leftovers within a few days, you can transfer them to a freezer-safe container and freeze for one to two months. Thaw in the refrigerator overnight. 

Allrecipes Community Tips and Praise
“I made this recipe to go with ham on Christmas day and it was a hit!" says Grace. "I have a very picky family and everyone raved about this dish. I used Texas Toast for the bread and crushed pineapple in it's own juice. I will be making this again very soon."

“I used brown sugar instead of white but that was the only change,” says terrygillett. “This stuffing is so good, it's almost a dessert!”

“I made this for Easter and it was a HUGE hit,” raves Kelly. “I doubled the recipe and used a 9x13-inch pan and it came out perfectly. Not a bit left over.”
