Pumpkin Oreo Cupcakes
For these pumpkin Oreo cupcakes, a soft, spicy pumpkin cupcake sits atop a dark Oreo crust—and is finished off with a black cocoa-Oreo frosting. Top them off with an additional seasonal Oreo cookie, and they'll be a hit at any Halloween get-together!

By Kim
Prep Time: 50 mins
Cook Time: 35 mins
Cool Time: 30 mins
Total Time: 1 hr 55 mins
Servings: 16
Yield: 16 cupcakes
Ingredients
Oreo Crust

2 cups finely ground cream-filled chocolate sandwich cookies (such as Oreo®)

5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted

2 tablespoons firmly packed brown sugar

1 pinch salt

Pumpkin Cupcakes

1/4 cup unsalted butter, softened

2 tablespoons vegetable oil

1/2 cup white sugar

1/2 cup firmly packed light brown sugar

1 large egg, at room temperature

2 teaspoons vanilla extract

1 cup canned pumpkin puree (not pumpkin pie filling)

1/2 cup full-fat sour cream, at room temperature

1 1/4 cups cake flour

1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon

1/2 teaspoon salt

1/2 teaspoon baking powder

1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg

1/4 teaspoon baking soda

1/4 teaspoon ground cloves

1/4 teaspoon ground allspice

Black Cocoa-Oreo Frosting

1/2 cup unsalted butter, softened

4 ounces full fat cream cheese, chilled

1 3/4 cups confectioners sugar, or to taste

1 teaspoon vanilla extract

1/8 teaspoon salt

1/2 cup finely ground cream-filled chocolate sandwich cookies (such as Oreo®)

3 tablespoons black cocoa powder (such as The Cocoa Trader Black Dutched Cocoa Powder®)

2 tablespoons heavy cream

16 cookie cream-filled chocolate sandwich cookies (such as Oreo®), for garnish (optional)

Directions
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Line 2 cupcake pans with liners.

Prepare crusts: Mix Oreo crumbs, melted butter, brown sugar, and salt together in a small bowl until combined. Place 1 packed tablespoon of crumb mixture into the bottom of about 16 cupcake liners and press into an even layer.

Bake crusts in the preheated oven for 10 minutes. Remove from oven; allow to cool. Do not turn oven off.

Meanwhile, prepare cupcakes: Beat butter, vegetable oil, white sugar, and brown sugar with an electric mixer until light and fluffy. Add egg and vanilla and beat for 3 minutes on medium-high speed. Add pumpkin and sour cream and mix until combined. Add cake flour, cinnamon, salt, baking powder, nutmeg, baking soda, cloves, and allspice and mix until just combined.

Spoon about 2 tablespoons of the pumpkin batter over each Oreo crust (see Note).

Bake cupcakes until tops spring back when lightly touched, 22 to 28 minutes. Allow cupcakes to cool in the pans for 10 minutes before removing to a wire rack to cool completely.

For frosting, beat butter with an electric mixer until smooth. Beat in cream cheese until thoroughly smooth and combined. Beat in 1 cup powdered sugar, vanilla, and salt until thoroughly combined, then beat in finely ground Oreos and black cocoa. Add in remaining 3/4 cup powdered sugar; beat until smooth and combined.

Pour in heavy cream, and mix on low speed. Gradually turn mixer speed up to medium-high and beat until frosting is light and fluffy, 3 to 4 minutes. Frost cooled cupcakes as desired and top with an additional Oreo cookie, if desired.

Cook’s Note
Substitutions: Dutch-processed cocoa can be substituted for the black cocoa. All-purpose flour can be substituted for the cake flour. Pumpkin pie spice can be substituted for the spices called for.

You will have enough extra batter to make several regular pumpkin cupcakes without the Oreo crust. Simply divide the extra batter between cupcake liners, filling no more than 2/3 full, and bake for 20 to 25 minutes.
