Red Velvet Pots de Crème
These red velvet pots de crème are a special occasion chocolate dessert that is plenty decadent, but still somehow light. With a deeper chocolate flavor than typical red velvet cake, and a little bit of cream cheese tanginess. they are super easy, gorgeous, and incredibly delicious.

By John Mitzewich
Prep Time: 25 mins
Cook Time: 5 mins
Cool Time: 2 hrs
Total Time: 2 hrs 30 mins
Servings: 4
Ingredients
Pots de Crème

3/4 cup whole milk

1/2 cup heavy cream

3 large egg yolks

4 1/2 ounces semisweet chocolate (62% cacao), broken into small pieces

1/8 teaspoon kosher salt

1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract

1/8 teaspoon red gel food coloring, or as needed

1/4 cup cream cheese

Whipped Topping (optional)

1/4 cup very cold heavy cream

1 tablespoon confectioners sugar

1 tablespoon cream cheese, at room temperature

1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract

cocoa powder, for dusting

Directions
For pots de crème, whisk together milk, cream, and egg yolks in a saucepan. Cook, stirring constantly with a spatula over medium heat, until the mixture is hot and steamy, but has not begun to simmer yet. An instant read thermometer inserted into the mixture should read 160 degrees F (71 degrees C).

Remove from heat, add chocolate, and swirl pan a few times to settle chocolate down. Let sit for 2 minutes. Add salt, vanilla, and red coloring. 

After 2 minutes, add cream cheese, and whisk everything until smooth. If cream cheese is not mixing in completely, use a stick blender to mix for a few seconds. 

Transfer mixture into serving glasses or jars. Place jars on a tray and tap each one gently a few times to bring any air bubbles to the surface. Cover with plastic wrap and chill in the refrigerator until cold and firm, at least 2 hours or up to overnight.

For whipped topping, add heavy cream, confectioner’s sugar, cream cheese, and vanilla to a bowl, and whisk until medium-stiff peaks form. Add to a piping bag, and pipe (or spoon) over chilled pots de crème. Dust lightly with cocoa powder, and serve.

From the Editor:
For this recipe, a high-quality solid bar chocolate with 62-70% cacao is best. Chocolate chips contain stabilizers and may change the result, and some chocolate will contain milk or sugar, and will not set as well as a good-quality semisweet chocolate.
