Spanish-Style French Toast (Torrijas)
Spanish-style French toast, or torrijas, is basically French toast, bread pudding, and creme brulee all rolled into one, and it is nothing short of magical.

By John Mitzewich
Prep Time: 20 mins
Cook Time: 20 mins
Total Time: 40 mins
Servings: 4
Ingredients
Infused Milk

4 cups milk

1/2 cup white sugar

1/4 teaspoon salt

1 orange, zested

1 lemon, zested

1 teaspoon ground cinnamon

2 whole cloves

1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract

The Rest

3 large egg yolks

2 large whole eggs

4 slices stale French bread or brioche

1 cup olive oil, or as needed, for frying

4 tablespoons turbinado sugar (raw sugar)

Directions
Combine milk, white sugar, salt, orange zest, lemon zest, cinnamon, cloves, and vanilla in a saucepan, whisk, and bring to a simmer over medium-heat. Reduce heat to medium-low and simmer gently for 5 minutes.

Strain milk through a mesh strainer and transfer 2 cups into a shallow dish in which to soak stale bread; set aside. 

Transfer remaining 2 cups infused milk into a saucepan to make the custard sauce; add yolks and whisk thoroughly. Return saucepan to medium-low heat, and cook, stirring with a spatula and scraping the bottom constantly, until the mixture gets hot and thickens enough to coat the back of a spoon. Remove from heat; immediately pour through a fine mesh strainer. Let cool and refrigerate until needed. 

Soak stale bread in milk, turning a few times, until most of milk is absorbed and bread is saturated. Remove to a pan or plate and refrigerate until needed. 



Beat whole eggs in a wide shallow bowl. Coat bread on both sides in the egg. 

Pour olive oil, 1/4  to 1/2 inch deep into a nonstick skillet, and heat over medium heat. Fry soaked bread in the hot oil until browned and puffed, about 4 minutes per side. When fully cooked, the bread will spring back when touched in the center.

Remove to a plate. Top each slice with 1 tablespoon turbinado sugar. Use a blowtorch with a low flame to brûlée the surface. Serve immediately with custard sauce.

From the Editor:
We have determined the nutritional value of oil for frying based on a retention value of 10% after cooking. Amount will vary depending on cooking time and temperature, ingredient density, and specific type of oil used.
