Strawberry Shortcake
This strawberry shortcake is the classic, biscuit-style shortcake — not the pound cake variety. The cake is sliced in half and layered with sweet juicy strawberries and whipped cream for a delicious summer treat!

Submitted by Denyse
 Tested by Allrecipes Test Kitchen
Prep Time: 30 mins
Cook Time: 20 mins
Additional Time: 10 mins
Total Time: 1 hr
Servings: 8
Yield: 1 (8-inch) round cake
Ingredients
6 cups fresh strawberries

⅓ cup white sugar

2 ¼ cups all-purpose flour

¼ cup white sugar

1 tablespoon baking powder

¼ teaspoon salt

½ cup butter cold unsalted butter, cut into ½-inch pieces

1 large egg, lightly beaten

¾ cup half-and-half

2 teaspoons vanilla extract, divided

1 ½ cups whipped heavy cream

¼ cup powdered sugar

Directions
Gather the ingredients.

Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C). Grease an 8-inch cake pan with butter and lightly dust with flour.

Slice the strawberries and toss them with 1/3 cup of white sugar. Set aside.

Combine flour, 1/4 cup of white sugar, baking powder, and salt in a medium bowl; cut in butter with a pastry blender or two knives until mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Make a well in the center of mixture; add beaten egg, half-and-half, and 1 teaspoon vanilla.  Stir mixture until just combined and no dry spots remain, being careful not to overmix.

Spoon batter evenly into prepared cake pan.

Bake in the preheated oven until a toothpick inserted into the cake comes out clean and top is golden brown, about 18 minutes. Let cool partially in cake pan, about 10 minutes. Flip cake onto a clean work surface. 

Meanwhile, beat heavy cream, powdered sugar, and remaining 1 teaspoon vanilla with an electric mixer on medium-high speed until soft peaks form, about 3 minutes. Set aside.

Cut partially cooled cake in half horizontally, making 2 layers; set top layer aside. Drain reserved strawberries in a colander placed over a small bowl, reserving any juice. Brush strawberry juice evenly over top of bottom cake layer. Evenly arrange ½ of the drained strawberries over bottom layer of cake.

Spread ½ of whipped cream evenly over strawberries; place top cake layer over whipped cream. Top with remaining strawberries and whipped cream.

Enjoy!

Cook’s Note
To make 9 individual shortcakes: Drop batter onto a parchment paper-lined baking sheet using a scant ⅓ cupful, and spacing evenly apart. Bake in the preheated oven until tops are golden brown, about 15 minutes. Let cool briefly, then split cakes in half horizontally.

Brush strawberry juices evenly over top of each cake bottom; top each bottom half evenly with about 3 tablespoons drained strawberries and about 3 ½ tablespoons whipped cream. Cover with top cake halves. Top evenly with remaining strawberries and whipped cream.

Editor's Note
This recipe was tested in our test kitchen and updated to reduce the amount of baking powder in the cake based on user feedback.
