Struffoli
Struffoli are delicious little balls of fried dough with a sweet honey glaze, formed into a tower or Christmas tree shape and decorated with colorful sprinkles. My grandma always made them every year, but since she can't do it anymore, I came up with this recipe that she loves because they are a little bit sweeter than the traditional ones.

Submitted by Jess
Prep Time: 15 mins
Cook Time: 30 mins
Total Time: 45 mins
Servings: 8
Ingredients
Struffoli:

4 large eggs

¼ cup white sugar

¼ cup vegetable oil

1 teaspoon vanilla extract

1 teaspoon baking powder

¼ cup all-purpose flour, or as needed

2 cups vegetable oil for frying, or as needed

Glaze:

½ cup honey, or more to taste

½ cup white sugar, or more to taste

1 tablespoon rainbow sprinkles, or to taste

Directions
Gather all ingredients.

Beat eggs, 1/4 cup white sugar, 1/4 cup vegetable oil, and vanilla extract together in a bowl; stir in baking powder.

Slowly stir flour, about 1 tablespoon at a time, into egg mixture until a soft dough forms.

Roll dough into small balls.

Heat 2 cups vegetable oil in a large saucepan to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) or until you see little waves on the bottom of the saucepan.

Working in small batches, fry dough balls in hot oil until lightly browned, 2 to 3 minutes per batch. Transfer struffoli to a paper towel-lined plate using a slotted spoon.

Heat honey in a saucepan over medium-low heat. Slowly mix 1/2 cup sugar, a few tablespoons at a time, into honey until sugar is melted and glaze is smooth, about 5 minutes.

Transfer struffoli to a large bowl and pour glaze on top; toss quickly to evenly coat before glaze hardens.

Arrange struffoli into a tower shape or Christmas tree shape on a serving plate. Sprinkle nonpareil sprinkles over struffoli.

From the Editor
We have determined the nutritional value of oil for frying based on a retention value of 10% after cooking. The exact amount will vary depending on cooking time and temperature, ingredient density, and the specific type of oil used.
